



https://robbreport.com/food-drink/spirits/lists/best-irish-whiskey-cocktails-recipes-st-patricks-day-1237672386/

FOOD & DRINK / SPIRITS MARCH 14, 2026
The 7 Best Irish Whiskey Cocktails to Make This St. Patrick’s
Day
By JASON O'BRYAN, JEREMY REPANICH


THE MEAN FIDDLER RECIPE 4:07
1 oz (30 ml) Redbreast 12 year Irish Whiskey
TOO SMOKY  1/2 oz (15 ml) Laphroaig 10 year Islay Scotch
3/4 oz (22.5 ml) Cocchi Vermouth di Torino
3/4 oz (22.5 ml) Green Chartreuse
1/2 oz (15 ml) Campari
2 dashes Angostura bitters
1 barspoon (~5 ml) cinnamon syrup*
Expressed lemon oil and peel for garnish





Tipperary

Irish whiskey is known for its friendly mildness, so to pair it with a charging
rhinoceros like Green Chartreuse gives the cocktail a shove into a realm of intensity
that Irish whiskey drinks rarely occupy. Made in equal parts as creator Hugo Ensslin
originally conceived it, the Green Chartreuse utterly dominates the experience, but
back down the liqueur and boost the other two ingredients a touch, and the Tipperary
is a bold but charming drink. The Irish whiskey meets you up front, its light caramel
sweetness amplified by the Chartreuse, while the mid-palate goes deep with
vermouth’s red fruit before handing the baton back to the Chartreuse for long finish
of herbal fireworks.

1.5 oz. Irish whiskey
1 oz. sweet (red) vermouth
0.75 oz. Green Chartreuse





Eggless Whiskey Sour

2 oz. Irish or Canadian whiskey
0.75 oz. fresh lemon juice
0.75 oz. simple syrup


Irish Coffee
1.25 oz. Irish whiskey
3.75 oz. hot coffee
2 tsp. sugar
Heavy cream


Wild Eyed Rose

2 oz. Irish whiskey
.75 oz. lime juice
.75 oz. grenadine


sibling cocktail the Jack Rose (an otherwise
identical mixture with apple brandy substituted for Irish whiskey, 



Irish Breakfast

1.5 oz. Irish whiskey
0.75 oz. lemon juice
0.5 oz. Cointreau
0.25-0.5 oz. simple syrup, to taste
1 tsp or barspoon orange marmalade

Add all ingredients to a cocktail shaker and add ice. No need to stir, shaking will
mix everything just fine. Shake hard for eight to 10 seconds and strain up into a
chilled Martini or coupe glass, and garnish with an orange peel.


Cameron’s Kick

There’s a problem with the Cameron’s Kick cocktail, but it has nothing to do with the
taste. It tastes great. No, the problem with the Cameron’s Kick—and the reason that
you’ve maybe never heard of it, despite it being one of the very few classic Irish
whiskey cocktails we have—is that it doesn’t make any bloody sense. My problem is
this: 
Why are we splitting the base between Irish whiskey and scotch? What
specifically are we trying to achieve? 
Split bases in classics are super rare. They’re
much more common these days, but either way, when you see them, it’s generally two
ingredients that are, you know, different, designed to complement each other—rum
and rye, say, or Calvados and Cognac. Irish whiskey and scotch, on the other hand,
are (or can be) so similar you have to dress them different to tell them apart. A mild
blended scotch and an Irish whiskey may not have identical voices but they’re singing
the same song, and it’s not in any way clear what is being achieved by including both.
When you make two Cameron’s Kicks side-by-side—one the classic recipe, and the
other just with 100 percent Irish whiskey—the former is good and the latter is great.
Together the flavor is muddled, slightly discordant, but alone the Irish whiskey gets
to sing, its apples and pears and slight malt and gentle touch a perfect foil to the zesty
front palate of the lemon and the deep finish of the almonds. So just go all Irish
whiskey and you’ll have the best version of this classic you’ll try.

2 oz. Irish whiskey
0.75 oz. lemon juice
0.75 oz. orgeat
1 dash Angostura Bitters (optional)

Add all ingredients to a cocktail shaker with ice and shake hard for 10 to 12 seconds.
Strain either off ice into a cocktail glass, or onto fresh ice into a rocks glass, and
garnish with a lemon peel.
Admiral Schley High Ball





Admiral Schley High Ball

Tom Bullock was the first African American to publish a cocktail book, called The
Ideal Bartender, in 1917. And in St. Louis, he was renowned behind the stick, known
as wizard with the Mint Julep. He had the good idea of mixing absinthe and
Benedictine, the first author I’ve seen do that. He was perhaps the first to publish
a Martini-like cocktail with an onion, that would become the Gibson. He also has a
flurry of original cocktails, any one of which I’d be proud to present to you today, but
my favorite is the Admiral Schley High Ball, made of Irish Whiskey, lemon juice,
pineapple syrup, dessert wine, and soda.
Schley was a Navy Admiral and a hero of the Spanish-American War, and this is
actually not the only drink named for him (the other is a bourbon and rum Daiquiri of
sorts in Charles Baker’s 1939 A Gentleman’s Companion), but Bullock’s drink was
first, to say nothing of being both more creative and tastier. The Admiral Schley’s
High Ball is a lovely and disarming drink, the bright fruit of the pineapple teasing out
the honeyed brightness of the dessert wine, with the mild oak from the Irish Whiskey
providing structure, a kind of a gentle but present backbone. It plays to Irish
Whiskey’s core strength, which is that it’s such a soft and approachable spirit that
subtle fruit—that which would be bludgeoned by bourbon or even scotch—is allowed
to express itself and entice you with its subtleties.

2 oz. Irish whiskey
0.5 oz. white dessert wine, like Tokaj or Sauternes
0.75 oz. pineapple syrup
0.75 oz. lemon juice

Add all ingredients to a cocktail shaker and shake on ice for six to eight seconds.
Strain into a tall glass over fresh ice, top with soda (optional) and garnish with a
pineapple wedge or lemon peel.





